
I am learning how to use git.

I created a directory named 'repos' to hold my repositories

Here are some commands:

1. git@github.com:MightyElf4/git_test.git
This command is an example of how to copy a repository from GitHub onto my computer
using the CLI.

2. git remote 
This command shows the short names of allconfigured remote repositories.

git remote -v
    Shows the short names alongside their specific fetch and push URLs.
git remote add <name> <url>
    Links a new remote repository to your local setup under a specified alias.
git remote show <name>
    Displays detailed information about a specific remote, including tracked branches.
git remote rename <old> <new>
    Changes the shorthand alias of an existing remote.
git remote remove <name>
    Unlinks a remote repository from your local system.
git remote set-url <name> <new-url>
    Updates the web or server address of an existing remote

3. git status
This command displays the current state of
your Git working directory and staging area.

git status -s: 
    Short-format condensed view showing concise status codes like M for modified or A for added.
git status -b: 
    Used alongside the short flag (git status -sb) to force branch information into the compact view.
git status -v: 
    Verbose mode that displays the actual textual differences (git diff) alongside file status.

4. git add 
This command moves changes from your local working directory to the staging area (aka index), preparing them to be included in
your next commit.

git add filename.txt
    Stages a single file.
git add . 
    Stage all changes in the current directory and subdircetories
git add -A
    Stage all changes across the entire repository.
git add file1.js file2.css
    Stage multiple specific files
git add *.txt
    Stage all files matching a specific extension

Useful options:
    -p / --patchInteractive staging: 
        Prompts you to review and stage specific parts (hunks) of a file instead of the whole file.
    -u / --update:
        Stages modified and deleted files only, completely ignoring new (untracked) files.
    -n / --dry-run: 
        Shows you what would be staged without actually staging the files (great for testing).

5. git commit
This command captures a snapshot of your project's currently staged changes and permanently saves them to your local repository history.

git commit -m "your message"
    Commits your staged changes directly from the command line with a brief descriptive message.
git commit -am "your message"
    Automatically stages all modified or deleted files and commits them in one step. Note: This will not include newly created (untracked) files.
git commit --amend -m "new message"
    Modifies your very last commit. Use this to fix a typo in your last message or add forgotten changes to it.

6. git log
This command is used to view the commit history of a Git repository.

git log --oneline
    compact summary
git log -n <number (ex.5)>
    limit commit count
git log --oneline --graph --all
    visual branch graph
git log --author="name"
    filter by author
git log --since="2 weeks ago"
    filter by date
git log --grep="bug fix"
    sort commit message
git log --stat
    view changed files
git log -p 
    show code changes
git log -- path/to/file.txt 
    track a specific file 

7. git push
This command uploads your local repository commits to a remote repository, making your changes accessible to collaborators.

git push origin main 
    Standard push: this pushes your changes from the local branch to the remote branch named 'main' on the default remote host (usually main)
git push -u origin feature-branch
    First time pushing a new branch: the "-u" glag links your local branch directly to the remote branch. After doing this, you can just use 'git push' in the future.
git push origin --delete feature-branch
    Delete a remote branch: This completely removes the designated branch from the repository.


